The Return
by Philip Rushik (prushik@betteros.org)

The Return is a game featuring old school style graphics and arcade style 
gameplay.
The player takes control of a spaceship (like the spacecraft from the classic 
game of asteroids) and must shoot a variety of targets and enemies. The main 
difference is that the entire game takes place not in space, but on a planet, 
and thus, everything is subject to gravity, including the player, enemies, and 
even missiles. This makes aiming more difficult as the player must also account 
for gravity. In addition, missiles take approximately one second to become 
"armed", and are harmless before they become armed. "Armed" status is indicated 
in-game by the warhead color changing to red.

The Return features six gameplay modes. The first is simple target practice to 
get used to the game controls. The second is "Asteroids Mode", where the player 
must destroy asteroids. The third is "Missile Command Mode", where the player 
must destroy ground based turrets, and shoot down incoming scud missiles. The 
fourth mode is "Tank Mode", where the player must destroy ground based vehicles 
while avoiding their return fire. The fifth mode is "Airships Mode" where the 
player must battle turrets hoisted into the air by lighter-than-air balloons. 
The sixth, and final game mode is called "Everything Mode". In Everything Mode, 
the player will encounter waves of enemies, but each wave will be different. 
Later waves of Everything Mode can even include combinations of enemies such as 
tanks and airships at once.


The Return is not a usual game, and it is programmed in an unusual style. The 
Return has no userspace dependencies, and can run with nothing more than a 
Linux kernel. Not even X is required, as a matter of fact, in most systems, you 
must leave X in order to play the game.
To play The Return, your system must be 
set up in slightly unusual way. First of all, your Linux Kernel must provide a 
framebuffer device located at /dev/fb0. Second, you must know which event 
device in /dev/input/ is handling your computer's keyboard, and specify this 
on the command line when running the game. Finally, you must leave X in order 
to play the game. I recommend running the game from the command line as normal, 
either from X or from a tty, and then switching to an unused virtual terminal 
(such as tty8 via CTRL+ALT+F8) to play the game, this will prevent the output 
of the keyboard causing the terminal to do things while you are playing.

For instrustions on compiling and installing the game, see the file: INSTALL
